# nixos-configuration

The collection of publically visible nixos-configuration files used for my
NixOS fleet.

## Desktop

My personal desktop configuration is reflected in the top-level `desktop`
directory. The only file not tracked is `hardware-configuration.nix` since this
is auto-generated when installing NixOS.

The system-wide configuration is found in `configuration.nix`. User-specific
configurations are grouped within a directory specific to each user. As of now,
this is just `jrpotter`. The `flake.nix` file links the system and user
configurations together.

## Secrets

Secrets are managed via [sops-nix](https://github.com/Mic92/sops-nix) containing
keys generated by [age](https://github.com/FiloSottile/age) from a pre-existing
ed25519 SSH key. If you do not have an ed25519 key already, generate one via:
```bash
$ ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "<email>"
```
You can generate an `age` secret key from this SSH key like so:
```bash
$ mkdir -p ~/.config/sops/age
$ nix-shell -p ssh-to-age --run \
    "ssh-to-age -private-key -i <ssh-file> > ~/.config/sops/age/keys.txt"
```
And find the corresponding public key (to be included in `.sops.yaml`) like so:
```bash
$ nix-shell -p ssh-to-age --run "ssh-to-age < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub"
```
and include in the root `.sop.yaml` file to be used when creating new secret
files.

## Remotes

Remote machines are hosted on [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/).
The custom image used by each droplet can be built using the top-level
`digital-ocean` flake. This image disables a root password in favor of SSH.
A droplet running this image will automatically pull in any enabled SSH keys
from your DigitalOcean account at creation time.

Each machine must be registered using

Deployment is managed using [colmena](https://github.com/zhaofengli/colmena).
To deploy, run the following:
```bash
$ cd infra
$ nix flake update  # If any machine changes were made.
$ colmena apply
```
Note that `colmena` requires non-interactivity. If you haven't done so already,
you'll likely need to add the private Ed25519 SSH key corresponding to the
public one uploaded to DigitalOcean to your SSH agent. Do so by running:
```bash
$ eval $(ssh-agent -s)
$ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
```
